# Transcript of Barnaby Raine Speaking on his motivation for his PhD Thesis subject

[Using US spelling]

There's this cliche that it's easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of capitalism, so I'm thought I'm going to work out why that became the case, when that became the case. And I'm happy to report, comrades, that I've foudn an answer [laughter]. It is that political ideas follow from the experiences, the needs, the hopes, the dreams, the fears of people. And political horizons take shape when there are movements that form that give voice to the needs those horizons express. And so neoliberalism is, among many other things, a concerted counter revolution. Not against the welfare state and social democracy, but against the mass movements all over the world of the 1960s and 70s which wanted to push beyond the postcolonial welfare state order to a world of universal freedom. It was the movement that took shape when students in Paris built barricades. And it was the world that took shape when the people of Chile elected a socialist. And it was the world that took shape when, on May Day 1975, the people of Vietnam drove a tank into the US embassy. Neoliberalism is the organized counter-revolution against all of those hopes and dreams and what it came to do was to destroy the communities of struggle that had nourished hopes of a better[?] world. That's why the key struggle for neoliberalism in Britain is the smashing of miners[?]. The people who were founding the Labor Party, organized our only ever general strike, brought down the Tory government in the 1970s - that's why they had to be destroyed. Neoliberalism is the smashing, the disassembling of those communities in which horizons of a better world take shape. That's how they win, that's how they tell us there's no alternative. And so knowing that has given me so much more confidence in the need, and the importance - even if we can't see the immediate outcomes right now - the importance of rebuilding, stitching together like a tapestry, those different communities in which dreams of a better world might be nourished. That is the only thing that allowed for any kind of victory. [Video cuts off here]
